# Project by Christopher Sommerville, cssommer@uci.edu, 50164540

# Speedrun.com Analytics

This project was generated with [Angular CLI](https://github.com/angular/angular-cli) version 11.0.2.

## Build

Run `ng build` to build the project. The build artifacts will be stored in the `dist/` directory. Use the `--prod` flag for a production build.

## How To Run
Run `npm install` from the command line in the project directory to install the necessary components then run the command `ng build` from the command line to build the project. Then...

Pages often take between 5-10 seconds to load the page or load graphs/information. Similarly, the results for searching for a user can take 4-5+ seconds. This is primarily due to the Speedrun.com API which slows down it's response speeds when the amount of requests increases to higher than normal levels (even on the Speedrun.com website searching can take 5+ seconds for results to show). I have not run into any issues with pages not loading at all but if 15+ seconds have passed with no information loading then refreshing the page should cause it to load properly.

## Summary
This project uses HTML, CSS, and JavaScript within the Angular framework to create a webpage that analyzes current and past activity of the website Speedrun.com. Data regarding games and users is gathered from Speedrun.com's API, documentaion at https://github.com/speedruncomorg/api, and from the Speedrun.com website.

# Grading (& the grades I think I earned)

## Requirements (19/20)

### Requests to Speedrun.com's API (Data gathering) (5/5)
The DataService class is an injectable class that provides functions to make calls to the Speedrun.com API and returns data about games, users, runs, categories, records, and leaderboards. The class mitigates the issues with Speedrun.com's API rate limit of 100 requests per minute as best as possible by gathering information in bulk whenever possible, which is limited to games & game records.

### Main Page (5/5)
The main/home page of the project provides summaries and links to the top ten most popular games on Speedrun.com based on the number of unique players and submitted speedruns of those games. It also shows graphs and statistics about recent activity on the site, specifically which games & users are the most active, and about past activity on the site, specifically the number of runs in the most popular games since the inception of Speedrun.com in 2014.

### Search Bar + Game / User pages (9/10)
The Search component is displayed on the main page and allows users to search for a game or user. Game results are generated by referencing the stored list of games and user results are generated by making requests to the API. The list of games is stored for a couple of reasons, one to avoid unnecessary API calls and the list of games contains ~20,000 entires while the number of users on the site is over 850,000. Each search result links to a specific page with summaries, links, graphs, and statistics about a game or user.

## Validity (4.5/5)
This project was designed to be viewed by a computer web browser however each page is responsive and will resize it's graphics, text, and graphs to to fit a range of screen sizes, including mobile device screens. I think I could have done a better job with using icons and adding HTML/CSS code which makes the games & user pages more responsive to mobile devices. 

## Documentation (5/5)
The project's code is thoroughly commented and the project's interface is straightforward on each page with links which highlight on hover to signal navigation.

## Total: (28.5/30)

## Bonus

None yet

## Features I'd like to add in the future
- Embedding leaderboards on each game's page
- More statistical analysis of the most popular games
- More graphs or statistics on the home page
- Embedding video's of runs on game/user pages

## List of Installed Components
- ngx-charts
- file-saver
- material-icons
- Firebase

## References / Sources
- https://angular.io/guide/view-encapsulation To be able to customize more CSS for the search bar, used in search.component.ts
- https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_js_autocomplete.asp Tutorial on creating a drop down search bar with HTML, CSS, & JS. Used in search.component.ts
- https://www.npmjs.com/package/file-saver for saving Javascript JSON objects to a file, used in data.service.ts for saving the lists of games & platforms.
- https://allorigins.win/ Website service for fetching webpages while avoiding same-origin problems, used in user-page.component.ts to check if a user has uploaded a profile picture
- https://swimlane.gitbook.io/ngx-charts/examples Chart framework used on the Home page, Game page, and User page to display graphs. Used in all .ts and .html files within the pages folder
- https://material.io/resources/icons/?style=baseline for icons, used on game and user page HTML files
- https://www.w3schools.com/howto/howto_css_loader.asp For adding a loader when pages/charts are loading, used in all HTML files.